A is for amplitude, which is complex.
In a quantum field it will bend and flex.

B is for boson, which can be gauge.
Is the graviton one? ... Oh, just turn the page!

C is for charge, which is always conserved.
It's why neutrons fly straight, and protons fly curved.

D is for delta, a big baryon.
It was just here, but now it's gone.

E's for electron, part of an atom.
They can't match spins. Nature won't let 'em.

F is for fermions, which can't be twins.
Thus electrons get shells. Thus matter begins.

G is for gauge, a symmetrical art.
A differentiable manifold Lies at their heart.

H is for hadron, a thing of quarks and gluons.
Color's confined, so you'll never see blue ones.

I is for i, the imaginary unit.
It helps make numbers complex, so we have to use it.

J is for J, or is it for psi?
Never could figure the name of that guy.

K is for kaon, all somewhat strange.
Look for 'em quick. They don't have much range.

L is for lepton, in three generations.
If you ask "Why three?" you'll get ruminations.

M is for muon, a heavy electron.
Most decay with the help of a W boson.

N is for neutron, a neutral hadron.
If it wasn't here, we'd all be gone.

O is for omega baryons, of strange, charm, and bottom.
Don't look for the tops: Nobody's got 'em.

P is for photon, traveling light.
On the null cone, there's no time in their flight.

Q is for quarks, which come in six flavors.
Their colors must cancel those of their neighbors.

R is for radiance, the heat and the light.
The process that gives decay all its might.

S is for symmetry, a lack of a change.
Points around which our theories can range.

T is for tau, of the third generation.
A lepton with mass to cause hadronization.

U is for upsilon, please don't say Y
To get to the bottom of a flavorless guy.

V is for vector, as bosons with spin 1.
Thus was our search for the weak force begun.

W is for bosons, of both kinds of charge.
Their lifetime is small. Their impact is large.

X is for X-ray, photons with punch.
Want to know what's inside? They'll give you a hunch.

Y is for hypercharge, mapping out particles.
It and isospin are the genuine articles.

Z is for zero, the first of our numbers.
Around that point some energy slumbers.
